# pfch_ice
DOCUMENTING ICE was created in Prof. Matt Miller’s course, Programming for Cultural Heritage at Pratt’s School of Information by Mia Bruner. My goal was to see how programming act as a tool to compile a central collection of records documenting U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: FOIA requests, detention facilities, available government records, and resources. I used python to gather as many available records of ICE FOIA requests, detention facilities and investigations of facilities as I could. Then I attempted to wrote scripts to clean the data and compile the most complete dataset possible.  Finally, I merged my data with available data sets from CIVIC. Still, this project is by no means comprehensive and future work
focused on collecting available documents and immigration records and making them findable online. This is because ICE’s recently approved record schedule allows the agency to destroy records of death, internal investigations, complaints against ICE officers, and assaults in ICE custody in timelines that range from 3 to 20 years.  These records contain information that is critical to the civil rights and safety of those held in dentition. Their destruction is a critical blow to transparency and the possibility of government transparency. Because of this, a digital public archive of immigration documents and records could be an invaluable resource not only to researchers but lawyers, journalists, and those impacted by immigration enforcement.  It warrants the attention and action of information professionals, linked data specialists, government documents librarians, programmers, and archivists concerned with protecting records of abuse by the federal government. 
